**UNDER CONSTRUCTION**

Contact me: kutashenko@gmail.com


<h2>YIoT ideology</h2>

- Everyone can use it everywhere. BSD-2 licence. All source codes and schematics are open source.
- Simplicity for end users. (Treat your control devices as a magic stick.)
- Users privacy. (No need for registration in most cases. End-to-end encryption. Controlled access share, and data share)
- Enable proprietary services only if you need it.


<h2>YIoT contains</h2>

- Control application for multiple OSes: Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, iOS (could be extended).
- Library for devices, so you have only to create application-level data structures and commands. No need to worry  about  security, communication, logging etc, everything is inside already.
- Online registry:
    - UI controllers for devices and device systems
    - Prepared configurations for devices like RaspberryPi, so you could configure device, let’s say, to a voice capture device in few taps in Control application 
- Local and online communication. Protocol can use any network interface.
System works with and without gateways.


<h2>Use-cases</h2>

<h3>Use-case: “Simple and safe usage of RPi”</h3>

<h4>Steps</h4>

- Write to flash Raspberry Pi OS image with preinstalled YIoT and disabled standard password
- Connect only the power cord to RPi and put it close to your phone or laptop with installed YIoT app.
- YIoT app informs you about a device that requests for setup
- Enter a new user name, password and static ip, and choose one of your WiFi networks.

<h4>What will happen</h4>

After acceptation of entered data, you RPi will get:
- YIoT root-of-trust // it’s generated by user’s control app, and belongs to a user only
- Cryptography signature
- Current user as an owner of this RPi.
- Prepared WiFi access and SSH server

<h4>Benefits</h4>
- No more standard pairs of user/password
- RPi needs only flash and power adapter, to be ready to work


<h3>Use-case: “Share access to you IoT devices”</h3>

<h4>Steps</h4>

- Guest comes to your home. And installs or already has YIoT app.
- App informs guest about present but unknown network
- Guest taps to acceps request of access
- Owner's app shows request of access.
- Owner decides if he need to scan data from guest's QR or just to trust to remotelly received data (guest certificate)
- Owner dicides if he want to set Guest as one more owner or as guest only
- Owner's app does setup of Guest's phone or laptop

<h4>What will happen</h4>

- Guest devices receive root-of-trust for a current IoT network, unless it already has it
- Guest control device could become an owner with complete rights
- Or Guest control device could become a limited user with time restrictions etc

<h4>Benefits</h4>
- different levels of permissions
- minimum of users operations


<h3>Use-case: “Safe remote access to a door-lock, but with online statistics”</h3>

<h4>Steps</h4>

- Your are not at home want to open a door for someone.
- Your YIoT app encrypts request to your door-lock and sends it via any online chanel, let's say MQTT brocker.
- MQTT brocker sends command to your door-lock, but it cannot decrypt, and it cannot to do a reply-attack if it hacked (because of integrated protection).
- the same request could have some open data for a statistics

<h4>What will happen</h4>

- System uses end-to-end encryption
- MQTT in the example uses TLS, so brocker can receive statistics data decrypted, but doesn't know about content of command (internal data, signatures)

<h4>Benefits</h4>
- safe access to sensitive devices
- usage of power of IoT Cloud services
